And I'll be finishing up this chapter this morning Colossians 1 be looking at verses 24 down through verse number 29
And as you know as we've been studying the book of Colossians the Apostle Paul never
personally ministered in the city of Colossae and
Therefore he did not know the believers that he was writing to personally nor did the believers in Colossae know him
personally no doubt there was some understanding that
Paul had about these believers and these believers had heard about the Apostle Paul
of course
we know as we study the portion of Scripture in the beginning of this book and other portions of Scripture with that that a
Paphras was the man that God used that was the minister there in the church at Colossae and
He was a fellow prisoner of Paul's and they knew one another a fellow servant
he refers to him as in other portions of Scripture and as we understand the relationship between Paul and
Epaphras it is through this relationship that Paul
Learns about these believers in Colossae as soon as he found out about these believers in Colossae
We find that the Apostle Paul is burdened for them. He is concerned for them
He desires to minister to them and God would use the Apostle Paul
Under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit of God to pen the words of this book the book of Colossians
That would be sent to these believers. We understand also and we've made this known as we began studying this book that in Colossae
The the false teachers were there and they were active
We know that the Bible warns about false prophets in the Old Testament
The Bible tells us about false teachers in the New Testament
We understand that just as there were false prophets in the first century
There continue to be false prophets even until this day and these false teachers
They were active in the church in Colossae and we would understand that as they were active there
That one of the things that they would do is they would attack the truth of the Word of God
But they would also attack the servants of God and in attacking the servants of God
We understand that Paul himself would come under the attack of these false
Teachers and as they would attack the false teachers and attack the truth that they would proclaim
We find that they were seeking to discredit Paul personally if we'd understand the passage here
They seek to discredit Paul and to promote themselves
There's something interesting about false teachers and that is that they're seeking
Gain for themselves and we find that it was John the Baptist that said
He must increase but I must decrease and the Apostle Paul was concerned about
Promoting and proclaiming the gospel of Jesus Christ and
Exalting our Lord and Savior and we see that that's what he was about
He wasn't about finding recognition for himself getting a big name for himself and all of these sort of things
No, he wanted to preach Christ and exalt Christ because he understood
The the importance of that he understood that all that he was was because of the grace of God
Amen, and all we are is because of the grace of God. We sing amazing grace and what a wonderful
familiar
favorite for many him that is
Amazing grace. I mean God's grace is amazing
It's abundant and we are what we are Paul said I am what I am by the grace of God
So if we look at this chapter Colossians chapter 1 if we were to quickly overview this first chapter and we'll finish it this morning
But we find that Paul in the beginning section of Colossians 1. What is he doing? He's encouraging these believers
He's writing to them and he's encouraging them. He's telling them how he heard about their faith
He heard that they had trust at Christ as their Savior and from that day. He began to pray for them and he
Encourages them by telling them how
Specifically he is praying for them. We've studied that portion of Scripture
I will not review it this morning, but we find that Paul through those first
That's that first section of Colossians 1 he's encouraging the believers and then we find that he exalts the Lord Jesus Christ
beginning in verse number 15 and following we studied the passage a couple of weeks ago and we find how that the Apostle Paul would
Exalt the Lord Jesus Christ and how important it is in our lives that we exalt our Savior. It's not about us
It's not about
Even our church. It's about the Lord
It's about people knowing that Jesus Christ is the only way to heaven that he is the only Savior for mankind
And we seek to preach that truth
now as we end
This chapter really if I would summarize what Paul does here is he begins to explain his ministry
He explains his ministry and in so doing I believe that he's seeking of course under the inspiration of Holy Spirit to
Give truth to these believers and Colossi to understand the ministry that he has the philosophy of ministry
That he has and and really set it apart
It is it is
distinctly different than these false teachers that had invaded the church and that were promoting their false teaching and they were
Promoting themselves. And so Paul is going to take a few verses at the end of this chapter and explain his ministry
I simply have titled the message this morning the ministry of Paul the ministry of Paul
Let's dig right in verse number 24 says this
Who now rejoice in my sufferings for you and fill up that which is behind of the afflictions of Christ in
My flesh for his body's sake which is the church
Whereof I am made a minister
According to the dispensation of God which is given to me for you to fulfill the Word of God
Even the mystery which hath been hid from ages and from generations
But is now made manifest to his saints to whom God would make known
What is the riches of the glory of this mystery among the Gentiles?
Which is Christ in you the hope of glory
verse 28 whom we preach
Warning every man and teaching every man in all wisdom that we may present every man perfect in Christ Jesus
Where unto I also labor
Striving according to his working which worketh in me
mightily
Number one if you're taking notes this morning
I want you to notice that Paul was enlisted into the ministry Paul was enlisted in the ministry. He uses two phrases
Really? It's the same phrase
He just repeats it at the end of verse number 23 and at the beginning of verse number 25
Notice what he says at the end of verse number 23 Paul says this whereof I Paul am made a minister
He then says in verse number 25
Whereof I am made a minister
See the Apostle Paul understood the call of God upon his life
He understood that he'd been enlisted in the ministry of the gospel the ministry of Jesus Christ and what a great privilege
It was for the Apostle Paul to be enlisted into the ministry
We understand that as Paul would share with the believers in Colossae now his ministry
No doubt in my mind that the Apostle Paul in his mind races back to his conversion and we understand it in Acts chapter
number 9
And and here's what's interesting about the passage of Scripture is that after Jesus tells Paul Saul at the time
Who he was I am Jesus whom thou persecutest that Paul Saul at the time
Responds by saying Lord
What will thou have me to do?
What will thou have me to do now? That's a good question
It's a question that every child of God should ask their Lord and Savior
You've saved my soul. You've changed my eternal destiny now Lord
What is it that you would have me to do?
We find that in Acts 9 in verse number 6
That is the record that is given of the Apostle Paul
Saul at that time asking that question when he is sharing his testimony in Acts chapter number 22
He says that Jesus said this to him and it's recorded in Acts 22 in verse number 21
He says depart for I will send thee far hence unto the Gentiles
In the book of Galatians
we find that Paul would refer to himself as being the Gentile to the
Uncircumcision or to the Gentiles and Peter to the circumcision or to the Jews we find
That Paul would use this phraseology as he's speaking to these believers in Colossae and help them
Understand that he was in the ministry because he had been called by God
Go back if you will to Acts 26 and read with me
Paul's testimony in Acts chapter number 26. He once again is sharing his testimony
We find this a couple of times in the book of Acts in this particular context
we find that Paul is speaking before Agrippa and in verse number 14
Look at verse number 13 with me
It says this at midday when they were on their way to Damascus
Oh King I saw on the way a light from heaven above the brightness of the Sun
Shining round about me and then which journeyed with me and when we were all fallen to the earth
I heard a voice speaking unto me and saying in the Hebrew tongue
Saul
Why persecuted thou me it is hard for thee to kick against the pricks and I said who art thou?
Lord, and he said, I am Jesus whom thou persecutest. In Acts 9 is the record of
this immediate event and that's where verse number 6 tells us that Saul then
says, Lord what wilt thou have me to do? Notice in verse 16 of Acts 26, but rise
and stand upon thy feet, for I have appeared unto thee for this purpose.
Notice this phrase, to make thee a minister and a witness, both of these
things which thou hast seen and of those things in the which I will appear unto
thee, delivering thee from the people and from the Gentiles unto whom now I send
thee, to open their eyes and to turn them from darkness to light and from the
power of Satan unto God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins and
inheritance among them which are sanctified by faith that is in me. Now
notice what Paul says. He shares his testimony with Agrippa as to the call
that was placed upon his life, and in verse number 19 he says, Whereupon, O King
Agrippa, I was not disobedient unto the heavenly vision. Paul understood that he
was enlisted into the ministry, that he had this ministry, and we find that as we
go back to the book of Colossians and as he's speaking to these believers in
Colossae and as he's rehearsing for them and helping them to understand, again
remember, the false teachers would seek to attack the person of the Apostle Paul.
They don't want them to, those false teachers, they don't want the believers
in the church in Colossae to listen to what Paul would say, they don't want them
to follow what the Apostle Paul would teach and proclaim, and so they seek to
discredit Paul. He's in prison, by the way. You're gonna listen to a man that's
in prison? I mean, can you understand what these false teachers may say? And Paul
says, I want you to understand that I'm a minister. I've been enlisted into the
ministry. Notice what he says in verse number 20, we mentioned in verse 23 and
verse number 25 back in Colossians 1, that he says, I am made a minister. Notice
what he says in verse number 24, he says this, Who now rejoice in my sufferings
for you. That's a powerful statement. The Apostle Paul had once persecuted the
church. We understand his name was Saul at that time. He'd once persecuted the
church, but now he was suffering for the church. And the Bible says here in verse
number 24, Who now rejoice in my sufferings for you. I want you to think
about this when Paul says in Philippians 3 and verse number 10, that I may know
him in the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of his sufferings,
being made conformable unto his death. Paul is now suffering, but he's not
suffering as an evildoer. He's not suffering as one that has broken
the law of God or of man. He's suffering because he has fulfilled the ministry
that God has given him. And because of his faithfulness in preaching the Word
of God, because he would travel from city to city, the Jews hated him because
of that message that he proclaimed, and that message is that Jesus is the
Savior, he is the Messiah, he is the Anointed One. And they hated him because
of that. And Paul is now in prison, and he's saying to these believers in Colossae,
I am in this place, I am having, I'm enduring these sufferings, but I want you
to know that I'm rejoicing in them. I'm rejoicing. Philippians is a sister book
that was written during the same time period when Paul was in prison, and
really the theme and the thought of the book of Philippians is rejoice, be
joyful. Rejoice in the Lord always. And again, I say rejoice. Philippians 4 and
verse number 4. And Paul here is saying to these believers in Colossae that he's
rejoicing in his sufferings, he says these sufferings are for you, he says,
and fill up that which is behind of the afflictions of Christ in my flesh for
his body's sake, which is the church. Understand that in verse number 24 he's
speaking again about the suffering that he's enduring because of his ministry
for the gospel's sake, for the church, the advancement of the church. We find that
here the Apostle Paul, as he's sharing with these believers about this really
perspective, it really would encourage us, but it would also convict us. Because
the reality is that we too have been enlisted into the ministry. We've been
enlisted in the ministry. Now, our place of service is going to vary, no doubt. We
find that as we have been enlisted, each one of us have a specific task, but all
for the glory of God. It's all for the glory of God. And Paul had a specific
task, he had a specific aspect of ministry that he was enlisted into, and
and he sought to fulfill that ministry. And in so doing, as we understand that
we've been enlisted into the ministry, that we too are servants of the Lord,
just as Paul is a servant of the Lord, that we too may face difficulty and
hardship. Paul says this to Timothy in 2nd Timothy chapter number 3, he says in
verse number 12, "'Yea, all those who live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer
persecution.'" Peter, as he's writing to those believers that are suffering
greatly because of the evil, wicked Emperor Nero and his desire to attack
and stamp out Christianity, we find that Peter would say in 1st Peter 4 and
verse number 12, "'Think it not strange concerning the fiery trial that's coming
upon you.'" The reality is that Peter would say to those believers that he's
writing to that are scattered abroad because of the persecution, the
hardship, he says, "'Rejoice! I mean, happy are ye.'" And you say, really? Yeah. In Acts 5
in verse number 41, after the disciples were beaten and sent out and said, "'Don't
preach in his name any longer,' they were singing and rejoicing that they were
counted worthy to suffer shame for his namesake." Wow. Paul says, I want you to
understand, believers in Colossae, I've been enlisted into the ministry, I've
been called by God, and I'm seeking to fulfill the ministry. That's where we
enter into our next point, number two, if you will, Paul explains his ministry. Not
only was he enlisted in the ministry, but now he's going to explain his ministry.
In verse number 25, notice what he says, "'Whereof I am made a minister,' notice this
phrase, "'according to the dispensation of God which is given to me for you to
fulfill the Word of God.'" That word, dispensation, is a word that really means
stewardship. This responsibility, if you will, this being a steward, has been
placed upon the Apostle Paul, this dispensation of God which is given to me
for you. Paul understood that he had been given this responsibility, and I
believe that as we look at verse number 25, that really Paul recognizes this as
both a privilege and a responsibility. Notice the phrase in verse number 25
where it says this, "'which is given to me for you.'" Which is given to me for you.
What is the privilege? It was given to him. Which is given to me, what is the
responsibility? For you. Which is given to me for you. You understand this
morning I preached, I think maybe even this year at Christmas, but I know I've
preached it in years past, when you look at the account of those shepherds that
received the good news of glad tidings, which is to you but it shall be to all
people, is what the Scriptures tell us, and they were to go and proclaim that
message, and they did, and we find that for us as we would look here at the
truth that Paul is relaying to these believers in Colossae, is that this
ministry, as I seek to explain the ministry, it was given to me for you. You
know that the gospel wasn't brought to you just to keep to yourself? Really. What
a great joy to understand that the gospel has been given to us, but what
great responsibility is ours to take that message and proclaim it to a lost
and dying world. And we find that Paul desires, no doubt, to be faithful to this
ministry that had been given to him. Notice at the end of verse number 25, he
says, to fulfill the Word of God, to complete that which had been given to
him, to make known that which had been previously unknown. Look in verses 26 and
27, he says, even the mystery which hath been hid from ages and from generations,
but is now made manifest to his saints. What is this mystery that Paul would
speak of in verse number 27? It says, to whom God would make known what is the
riches of the glory of this mystery among the Gentiles, which is Christ in
you, the hope of glory. Wow, what a great opportunity that Paul had to make known
the truth of the gospel and to understand this truth that Gentiles
could be heirs of salvation, and that we have the privilege of having this truth
that has now been delivered to us as well. Christ in you, the hope of glory. And
Paul says, I desire to be faithful to that which God has given me to do. We
find that in 1 Corinthians 4 and verse number 27,
Number two, the Bible says moreover is required in stewards that a man be found faithful.
By the way, it was God that used Paul to pen those words as well to the church in Corinth.
And Paul, as he would now be sharing with these believers in Colossae, many years had
passed between the writing of 1 Corinthians and the writing of Colossians.
And Paul is saying, I desire to be faithful to what God has given me to do.
I understand that this is a matter of stewardship.
And then notice how he explains it.
Really, there's a threefold aspect of ministry that Paul will unload to these believers in
Colossae in verse number 28.
He begins to unwrap his ministry and to explain to them this ministry that God has given.
Notice the first aspect in verse 28, whom we preach, whom we preach.
The first aspect of the ministry that Paul would share with these believers in Colossae
is the responsibility to preach the gospel, to preach Christ.
You end verse number 27 by saying, Christ in you, the hope of glory, whom we preach.
The word preach means to announce, to declare, to make known, to publish.
We think about the songs that speak about published glad tidings, to make known the
gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ.
And Paul says that the first aspect of the ministry that God has entrusted to me, I've
been enlisted in this ministry, and I want to explain to you that, number one, we preach
Christ whom we preach.
You know, God has chosen that He would use preaching, the foolishness of preaching.
In the book of 1 Corinthians, in chapter number 1, Paul says this in verse 21, and then again
in verse number 23, as he would speak about preaching, and preaching the truth of the
Word of God.
In fact, Paul would say this in 1 Corinthians 1 and verse 17, for Christ sent me not to
baptize, but to preach the gospel, not with wisdom of words, lest the cross of Christ
should be made of none effect.
What's he saying?
I want to preach in the power of the Holy Spirit of God.
We'll get to that in just a moment, by the way.
He's saying that we're preaching Christ.
Verse 21 of 1 Corinthians 1, for after that, in the wisdom of God, the world by wisdom
knew not God, it pleased God by the foolishness of preaching to save them that believe.
For the Jews require a sign, and the Greeks seek after wisdom, but we preach Christ, crucified
unto the Jews a stumbling block, and unto the Greeks foolishness.
But unto them which are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ, the power of God, and
the wisdom of God.
I'm thankful for preaching.
I enjoy preaching, but I enjoy hearing good preaching, amen?
I enjoy hearing someone open and publish and proclaim the truth of the Word of God to preach
God's Word.
Paul says, as he would explain his ministry to these believers in Colossae, he says, number
one, whom we preach.
Notice number two, back in Colossians 1, in verse number 28, notice this phrase, warning
every man.
Warning every man.
This is a vital aspect of ministry, warning.
The reality this morning is that when we live life, if we were to speak to just any ordinary
people that we came into contact with, the reality is that we are accustomed to warnings.
There are warnings all around.
You go to your house this afternoon, and I guarantee you that if you take some products
out of the sink, cupboard below your sink, that cabinet there, you're going to find some
warning labels on the back of a number of those products, right?
Lawyers like those warning labels, right?
The consumers, we're supposed to be helped by those warning labels.
You drive, there are warning signs.
I remember years ago, we drove down to South Carolina as a family, and there was a sign
up that said, warning, bridge out ahead.
You know, I was happy for that warning sign because if it wasn't there, I might not be
here.
You understand?
There are warnings.
We're accustomed to warnings.
In fact, many of us come to a place in our lives where we've learned to appreciate warnings.
But there's something interesting about warnings biblically speaking.
All of a sudden, people get all kinds of concern when the preacher decides to give warnings
from the Word of God, honestly.
But the reality is that this is a vital aspect of ministry.
And Paul says, warning every man.
We should learn to appreciate the warnings of God's Word declared by God's man, truly.
I am thankful.
Listen, I understand this morning that this book that we hold dear and precious to us,
it is a living book, and it is a book that is profitable.
The Scriptures teach us that.
But contained within this book are many warnings.
And we're warned about many things.
And the Apostle Paul is understanding this vital aspect of ministry, and he's saying,
warning every man.
Now, the ministry doesn't end there.
It doesn't end with warnings.
We're going to see the fullness of verse number 28 in just a moment, but we understand the
importance of warnings.
Listen, if you had a polluted water source, would you not want somebody to warn you?
If someone had gone and purposefully contaminated your water supply, would you not want somebody
to warn you?
Would you get mad at them for warning you?
I hope not.
I'm going to drink it because I want to drink it, bless God.
You understand what I'm saying?
But all of a sudden, when a preacher gets up and wants to give a warning from the Word
of God, all of a sudden, we don't like warnings anymore.
Here's what Paul says.
Turn to the book of 1 Corinthians, if you will, in chapter number 4.
I think it was back in November.
I had a late notice of preaching a message for a teen rally, and the teens that were
there from our church will remember I preached from this passage of Scripture in 1 Corinthians
4.
I do not have time to develop the entire thought here, but I want to draw your attention to
verse number 14.
Paul loved these people in Corinth that he had the privilege of ministering to.
Paul says in 1 Corinthians 4, in verse number 14, I write not these things to shame you,
but as my beloved sons, I warn you.
As my beloved sons, I warn you.
See, we come to a place in our lives, biblically speaking, we think about the spiritual aspect
of warnings, that we come to a place where we should appreciate the warnings that God
gives us, and the warnings that a preacher, a pastor, an evangelist, a missionary would
like to proclaim from the Word of God, because God's given us these things to warn us, and
I'm so thankful for the Word of God.
I was sharing with Holly just the other day, actually it was on Friday evening, we were
chatting as we were driving somewhere, and as we were chatting, I shared with her how
thankful I am for the Word of God, and how through the truth of God's Word, we have
God revealing to us that which pleases Him, and that which displeases Him.
In fact, further on in 1 Corinthians, in chapter number 10, Paul will use the illustration
of some Old Testament examples, I believe there are five examples there if I remember
correctly, and he says with many of them, God was not well pleased.
If we would take the examples that Paul gives in that passage of Scripture, and he concludes
and says, God was not pleased with this behavior, we should take note and say, well then I ought
not do that, amen?
Because if it didn't please God then, it's not going to please God now.
Psalms, you don't have to turn there, but in Psalm 19, in verse number 11, as the psalmist
would declare not only the creation, the glory of creation, and how the heavens declare the
glory of God, he'll get into the Word of God, the law of the Lord, and he says in verse
number 11 of Psalm 19, moreover by them, speaking of the words of God, the law of God, is thy
servant warned, and in keeping of them there is great reward.
Paul says as he's explaining the ministry that God had entrusted to him, he says first
of all, we preach Christ.
Number two, we warn every man.
Number three, back in Colossians 1 and verse 28, teaching every man.
Notice what it says, whom we preach, warning every man, and teaching every man in all wisdom.
Really this is a fulfillment of the Great Commission.
We're going to the world and preach the gospel to every creature, baptizing them and teaching
them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded thee.
That's what the Lord Jesus Christ said in the fullness of the Great Commission in Matthew
28, verses 19 and 20.
We find that here, Paul would share with these believers in Colossae that he was seeking
not simply to preach the gospel and to warn the believers or to warn every man, but also
to teach every man.
It is critical for us to teach the whole counsel of God.
God. It is absolutely imperative that God's people know God's Word. It really is. God
has given us this precious book, but not to sit on a shelf and collect dust. Someone said,
I don't remember who it was, someone said that thumbprints in the Bible are more precious
than footprints on the moon, and I like that. Let the Bible get into us and affect us and
impact us and change us, because the Word of God is profitable. Paul says, I'm desiring
part of this ministry that's been entrusted to me is not only preaching Christ and warning
every man, but teaching every man in all wisdom. You know that wisdom comes from God. We're
not looking for sensual wisdom, we're looking for heavenly wisdom. The Bible tells us that
if any man lack wisdom, let him ask of God, which giveth all men liberally and upbraideth
not. We understand that Proverbs would speak much about the subject of wisdom and knowledge.
I'm thankful that our God is the all-wise God, the omniscient God. And we find that
Paul says that he's desiring here to teach every man. You don't need to turn there, but
you might want to note it in your notes there if you're taking notes. Nehemiah chapter number
8, and it's really a great outline for a simple outline that is so important and just precious
with regard to the purpose and the model of preaching and teaching. In Nehemiah 8,
the Bible speaks about how they came and they were teaching the Word of God. And in verse
number 8, the Bible says, so they read in the book in the law of God distinctly. Listen,
if a church ain't using the Bible, it is not a church worth going to. I'm being serious
with you. It really doesn't matter what I think. My thoughts are not that important,
honestly. It matters what God says. And there are a lot of churches in our nation and our
world that have set aside the Word of God. No, no. It says in Nehemiah 8, in verse number
8, so they read in the book in the law of God distinctly and gave the sense, explained
it, taught it, and caused them, who's them? The listeners, those that were gathered,
to understand the reading. What a great outline and model for teaching and preaching the Word
of God. And Paul says, these three aspects of ministry whom we preach, warning every
man and teaching every man in all wisdom, and we can ask ourselves, why, Paul? Why are
you doing this? Paul, this is the reason that you're in the place that you're in.
This is why you're suffering the way that you're suffering. Why is it? What is the goal?
What is the purpose? Notice the end of verse number 28, that we may present every man perfect
in Christ Jesus. What a great goal. What a great purpose of ministry. You could understand
this morning as we look at this passage of Scripture and as Paul is explaining the ministry
that God has entrusted, has enlisted him in, that as Paul would explain this to the believers
in Colossae, that this varied greatly from those false teachers that were so active there
in that region. They were not doing what they were doing so that they could present
every man perfect in Christ Jesus, but Paul says, let me help you understand the ministry.
Let me help you understand why I'm doing... First of all, I want to be a good steward
of what God has entrusted to me. And here's what God has entrusted me with to preach Christ,
to warn every man, to teach every man, so that we may present every man perfect in Christ Jesus.
You'll notice in verse number 28 that the phrase every man is used three times. Isn't that precious?
Paul was not seeking to just go and minister to some elite group of people. No, he's going
to every man. I don't believe as I study the life of the Apostle Paul and trace the pages
of Scripture and follow his life, I don't believe there was an individual that he was
not willing to minister to. Every man. God is no respecter of persons. He told us to
go and preach the gospel to every creature. And what a great privilege and blessing it
is to preach Christ. And notice what he says, to present every man perfect in Christ Jesus.
By the way, the only way for us to be perfect in Christ Jesus is to be saved. Remember as
we studied there in the previous passage of Scripture in the book of Colossians, when
he was speaking after he had shared with them how he was praying for them to know the will
of God and to do the will of God, he spoke to them about rejoicing and thanking God for
their salvation, their redemption. And he said this in verse number 12, giving thanks
unto the Father which hath made us meet to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints
in life. And we said this, that it was God, it was Christ that qualified us for heaven.
You can't qualify yourself for heaven and neither can I. But when I am washed in the
blood, when I have trusted the Lord Jesus Christ as my personal Savior and His perfect
righteousness has been imputed upon me, has been placed upon my account, I can stand perfect
in Christ Jesus. It carries with it the idea of being complete. Complete. Notice what he
says in Colossians 2 in verse number 10, the passage in which we've used as our theme for
this year, and ye are complete in Him, which is the head of all principality and power.
Paul says, my goal, the reason that I do what I do, the reason that I am perfect in Christ
Jesus, the reason that I am seeking to fulfill this ministry that's been entrusted to me
is because I desire to present every man perfect in Christ Jesus. You know, souls are dying.
People often ask, why do you do the things you do? Why is it that you insist on making
a big deal out of preaching the gospel? Why aren't you more involved in doing some other
kind of community services and so on and so forth? If the community service doesn't include
preaching Christ, we have fallen short of what our mission is. I'm not suggesting that
we don't help someone. I'm not suggesting that we don't participate in that type of
an activity, but if we neglect sharing Christ as part of that, we have missed what our purpose
is. Amen? Anybody can give somebody some food, but only a saved person can give somebody
the truth of the gospel. Again, I'm not suggesting, and for those that want to send me criticism
online from watching online, the Lord bless you. I'll read your email. I probably won't
respond. However, it's not our job to simply do those things. I'm not saying we shouldn't
participate, but we must be careful to give the gospel because people are dying. People
are dying. The only way for them to go to heaven is if they trust Christ as their Savior.
We believe that, do we not? We don't believe all roads lead to heaven. We don't believe
as long as you're sincere, you'll get to heaven. We don't believe be a good person. We don't
believe if the priest gives you some rites before you die. No, no, we don't believe that.
Salvation is only in one man, and that's the Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of God. There's
no other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. Paul says, this
is what motivates me. This is what keeps me going. This is the ministry to preach Christ,
to warn every man, to teach every man, so that we might present every man perfect in
Christ Jesus. It's a unique ministry. It's a blessed ministry, and we find that there
is consistency amongst the goal. We see Paul sharing this in verse 28 of chapter 1. We'll
get to this in several months, but I want you to look over quickly at chapter 4 and
verse 12. Paul is making his concluding remarks in this portion of Scripture, and he's beginning
to speak again about Epaphras. Of course, this man was, as best we can tell, probably
the pastor of this church in Colossae, and we find that the Bible would tell us about
Epaphras. Notice in verse number 12 of Colossians 4, Epaphras, who is one of you, a servant
of Christ, saluteth you. Notice what the Bible says, always laboring fervently. Isn't that
some unique wording? Always laboring fervently for you in prayers. Why? That you may stand
for you in prayers. Why? That you may stand perfect and complete in all the will of God.
Paul says, this ministry that's been given to me, that I've been enlisted in this ministry,
as I would explain it to you, it's to make known Christ, it's to preach Christ, it's
to warn every man, teach every man that we may present every man perfect in Christ Jesus.
Now notice quickly with me, as we finish this morning, verse 29, Paul was enabled for
the ministry. He understood that he was enlisted in the ministry. He was able to explain what
the ministry is.
that he had been given,
and now he's going to share with these believers
how he had been enabled for the ministry.
In v. 29,
"...whereunto I also labor,
striving according to his working,
which worketh in me mightily."
Paul acknowledged that he could not
fulfill the ministry in his own power,
and he rejoiced in the power of God
that was working in and through him.
Jesus said to his disciples,
without me, you can do nothing.
He said to his disciples before he would ascend to heaven
that they should receive power
after the Holy Ghost has come upon you.
Then you shall be witnesses unto me
both in Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria,
the uttermost part of the earth.
And we find that it's so imperative
that we understand this morning
that we do not seek to fulfill this ministry
that has been given to us
just as Paul would not seek to fulfill
the ministry in his own power and his own strength,
but that we do it through the power
of the Holy Spirit of God
through His enablement.
It's an amazing truth of the Word of God
that God would call us into the ministry,
that He would enlist us,
He would give us some level of responsibility
in serving Him, of being His servant,
and then He would equip us for service,
and then He would reward us for serving Him.
Isn't that amazing?
He says, I'm going to call you to this,
I'm going to explain to you how to do it,
I'm going to enable you to do it,
and then I'm going to reward you if you do it.
It's amazing.
And what a great privilege.
Paul said, I know that in me
that is in my flesh will have no good thing.
But he knew that as he would be surrendered to God,
as he would live that crucified life
that he speaks of in Galatians 2 and verse number 20,
as Christ would live in and through him
and empower him for the work of the ministry.
He's saying to these believers in Colossae,
it is Christ in you, the hope of glory,
but it's Christ in me, the Holy Spirit of God
that enables me for this ministry.
Paul, how can you rejoice in prison?
How can you rejoice in your sufferings?
Because of the power of God.
Notice with me what Paul says
back in 1 Corinthians 15.
And we'll close with a passage in the book of 1 Peter.
And look here at what Paul says in 1 Corinthians 15.
Of course, we know this chapter in 1 Corinthians 15
as being the great chapter of the resurrection
and what a great chapter it is.
And so thankful for the passage.
It's a lengthy passage of Scripture,
but how powerful and impactful it is.
Notice what Paul says of himself
in verse number 9.
He says, for I am the least of the apostles,
that I'm not meant to be called an apostle
because I persecuted the church of God.
But by the grace of God, I am what I am.
And His grace which was bestowed upon me
was not in vain,
but I labored more abundantly than they all.
Yet not I, but the grace of God
which was with me.
He says, I am what I am.
He says, but by the grace of God, I am what I am.
Christ working in and through him
and the power, the enabling for the ministry.
And here's the wonderful thing this morning
as we look at Paul rehearsing and explaining
to the believers in Colossae about his ministry
and how he had been enlisted into the ministry.
And as he explains the ministry
and then speaks about how he was enabled for the ministry.
This morning, each of us have been given
a responsibility to serve Christ.
Our task will vary, but our goal is to please God.
And we find that as our individual tasks
would vary based upon the spiritual gifts
that have been given to us,
that as we would seek to fulfill those,
we'd understand that I've been enlisted.
I'm a soldier in the army.
We sing and talk about being a soldier in the army.
And we are soldiers in the Lord's army.
And as a soldier in the Lord's army,
I've been enlisted.
I hope that we can explain why we do the things that we do.
People have asked me,
why do you care if I get saved?
What does it matter to you?
The real answer is that it doesn't do anything for me
if you get saved or not.
Because I'm going to heaven.
Amen?
And if I've given you the gospel,
I fulfilled my responsibility.
But I want you to be able to spend eternity
in heaven as well.
Because I know that the Bible says
there's only two places, heaven and the lake of fire.
And so what is it that would cause us
to continue to press on?
And no, it's not that we're going to get anything,
that there's any advantage to us personally.
But we understand the stakes are high.
And then we understand that we too
have been enabled for the ministry.
Look over in 1 Peter 4 if you will.
We'll close here.
In 1 Peter 4,
we mentioned earlier about verse 12
where he speaks about that fiery trial.
But in the preceding verses,
he's going to speak to these believers
about their ministry.
We find that Paul was enabled for the ministry
and he speaks to the believers in Colossae about that
and we too have been enabled.
It says here in verse number 10
of 1 Peter 4,
as every man hath received the gift,
he's speaking to believers.
If you've been saved this morning,
if you've trusted Christ as your Savior,
on the authority of the Word of God,
you've been given a spiritual gift.
If you say I have no idea what it is,
please talk to me because you should find out what it is
because if you don't know what it is,
you're not using it.
And you've been given it to use
for the glory of God.
It says here, as every man hath received the gift,
even so, minister the same one to another.
Notice what it says,
as good stewards of the manifold grace of God.
See, that's what Paul understood.
He understood the dispensation of God.
This stewardship that's been given to him
in Colossians 1 that we spoke about earlier.
And we find that it says here
that Peter's saying that as we minister
the same one to another,
as good stewards of the manifold grace of God,
if any man speak,
let him speak as the oracles of God.
If any man minister, notice this phrase,
let him do it as of the ability
which God giveth,
that God in all things may be glorified
through Jesus Christ to whom be praise
and dominion forever and ever.
Amen.
It's all for the glory of God.
But we minister, it says here,
let him do it as of the ability which God giveth.
You know, God enables you.
He gives you the ability to serve him.
You know, when we minister,
there's only so many spiritual gifts
and we're not in competition one with another.
We're seeking to do the ministry
as God has enabled us,
as of the ability that God giveth.
And the problem in Corinth,
because there's a whole lot of them,
so I shouldn't say the problem because there's a lot,
but one of the problems in Corinth
is that they were comparing themselves among themselves.
Paul says, it's not wise.
See, because I'm not in competition with you,
you're not in competition with me.
We're doing it as of the ability that God gives.
We understand and recognize the manifold grace of God
that's been given to us in his enabling.
And we seek that in all things he would be glorified.
And Paul explains this ministry
that God had given him to the believers in Colossae.
And I hope this morning
that not only would we have a better understanding
maybe of Paul's perspective,
but that we would understand this morning
that we too have been given a ministry.
We too have been given a responsibility.
And I hope that we could explain it.
And I hope that we'd understand this morning
that it's not my power,
it's in Christ in me
and how he works in and through us
as we are filled with and controlled
by the Holy Spirit of God.
Paul was a faithful servant of the Lord.
And he understood that because of his faithful service
to the Lord, that there were some rewards for him.
He speaks of that in 2 Timothy chapter number four.
This morning, sometimes we hold Paul up and say,
oh, look at Paul.
Paul said he is the chief of sinners.
But if we would be,
if we would understand and we would be as willing
as Paul was to just surrender to God,
say, Lord, use me, use me for your honor and for your glory.
I believe this morning that he will.
And if we say to the Lord,
as Paul did when he was still Saul,
Lord, what will thou have me to do?
God will reveal it to us
and he'll use us for his honor and his glory
so that souls might be saved,
so that the gospel of Jesus Christ would go far and wide.
And that's our responsibility.
And what a great joy.
Let's pray.
Father, we love you.
We thank you for loving us.
We thank you for the work.
of God, the truth contained therein, Lord, I pray that this morning you've helped us.
We've had just a few moments to examine this portion of Scripture and understand the ministry
that you gave to the Apostle Paul.
We're thankful for his example and for his testimony.
We're challenged by it.
And I pray, God, that this morning you would help us to have like perspective, desiring
to fulfill that which you have called us to do.
It's our desire that you alone would be glorified.
We do not seek the applause of man, the recognition of man.
We seek that you alone would be exalted.
I pray that in these few moments of invitation that you'd have your will in way, if there's
one amongst us that does not know you as their personal Lord and Savior, they've never trusted
Christ as their Savior.
It's our prayer this morning that they would trust Christ, that they'd get it settled.
Perhaps there's one this morning that has struggled with the idea of their service for
you.
Where it is that they could get involved and fulfill the work that you have called them
to do.
Lord, I pray that you would give them clarity and direction.
Perhaps there's some amongst us that need to just fully surrender.
I surrender all.
Lord, what would thou have me to do?
Maybe there's a young person, maybe an older person.
God, you've been working in their heart and life about ministry, full-time ministry, missions
or some other aspect of ministry.
Oh God, I pray that you'd work and move.
You said that the harvest is plenteous, but the labors are few.
Pray therefore, Lord of the harvest, that you would send forth laborers.
God, perhaps you'd call one from our midst to serve you in that capacity.
Oh, how we would rejoice.
I pray that you'd have your will in way, for it's in Christ's name we pray.
Would you stand with me?
Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.
Kimberly's going to play quietly on the piano.
During this time, it's our way of closing a service to give you an opportunity to respond
to the Word of God.
If you want to use your pew as an altar, feel free to do so.
If you want to come to this old-fashioned altar, as Kimberly plays, the altar is open.